Documentation for Managed Dependencies (#6561)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/java-programming/managed-dependencies.md

1. Enter the **Group ID**, **Artifact ID**, and **Version**. For example, `org.apache.poi`, `poi`, and `5.2.3`.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/java-programming/managed-dependencies/edit-java-dependencies.png" >}}

1. Click **OK** to confirm your changes.

    Studio Pro will attempt to retrieve these dependencies. This process is termed ‘synchronization’. The dependencies are downloaded from a central repository and cached locally. The default repository is Maven Central, but custom repositories can also be configured, see [Custom Repositories](#custom-repos), below. Synchronization will happen in the background so you can continue working in Studio Pro.

    {{% alert color="info" %}}When multiple modules use the same library they may be using different versions. In this case, dependency management will select the newest version of the library, based on the version of the recorded dependency.{{% /alert %}}

### 2.1 Finding the Right Dependency

Sonatype’s [Maven Central Repository](https://central.sonatype.com/) is a good place to start to find the proper identifier.

After finding the package of your choice, locate the Snippets part, containing the identifier:

> {{% todo %}}Need to ask Leroy for the SS{{% /todo %}}

Reviewer: This still needs to be done.

## 6 Custom Repositories{#custom-repos}

By default, dependencies are downloaded from the [Maven Central](https://maven.apache.org/) repository. In some scenarios, you may want to specify a custom location. For example, if your organization has its own repository to cache downloads or as an alternative if internet access is restricted in an air-gapped setup.

Custom repositories are configured in the **Repositories** setting of the **Deployment** tab in the [Preferences](/refguide/preferences-dialog/) dialog box. This setting uses the same syntax as Gradle. For example, to resolve dependencies from a directory `lib`, enter the following:

```groovy {linenos=false}
flatDir {
    dirs 'lib'
}
```

For more details, refer to the Gradle documentation on [Declaring repositories](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/declaring_repositories.html).

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/java-programming/managed-dependencies/custom-repository.png" >}}

## 7 Marketplace Modules

> Dependency information is included per module and included in Marketplace Modules. The actual dependency artifacts are not included, as these are automatically synchronized upon import.

Reviewer: What do you mean by
> The actual dependency artifacts are not included, as these are automatically synchronized upon import.

Do you mean that the .jars are not added to the vendorlib in the module, but are created in the app's vendorlib when synchronization is run?

Author: Yes.

Reviewer: @akkrishnakumar can I then say:
```suggestion
Dependency information is included per module and included in Marketplace Modules. The actual dependency artifacts are created in the `vendorlib` folder automatically when synchronization is run when the module is imported.
```

Reviewer 2: I have a small preference of mentioning that the artifacts are not part of the module, but if you think that's too much detail we can leave it out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dependency information is included per module and included in Marketplace Modules. The actual artifacts (`.jar` files) are not part of the module. They are downloaded to the `vendorlib` folder automatically when synchronization is run when the module is imported.
```

## Dependency Synchronization

When a change is made to the specified dependencies, for example by removing a dependency or upgrading a Marketplace module, dependency synchronization will automatically run in the background. You can also trigger a manual synchronization in the menu (`App → Synchronize dependencies`), for example when synchronization failed due to connectivity issues. Additionally, dependency synchronization also occurs when a project is opened in Studio Pro.

{{< figure src="/attachments/refguide/java-programming/managed-dependencies/app-synchronize-dependencies.png" alt="App Menu Synchronize Dependencies" >}}

Once Gradle has resolved and downloaded all dependencies successfully, it places them in the vendorlib directory. This directory is used to store .jar files of all the managed dependencies. Contrary to the userlib  folder, the vendorlib folder is completely managed by Studio Pro. Files here will automatically be added and removed based on the specified dependencies. The vendorlib folder will be committed to your version control just like the userlib.

> Once `Gradle` has resolved and downloaded all dependencies successfully, it places them in the `vendorlib` directory. This directory is used to store `.jar` files of all the managed dependencies. Contrary to the `userlib`  folder, the `vendorlib` folder is completely managed by Studio Pro. Files here will automatically be added and removed based on the specified dependencies. The `vendorlib` folder will be committed to your version control just like the `userlib`.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph is almost same with the previous one.

Reviewer: Removed.

## Unmanaged Dependencies

> Most dependencies can be managed using this new Dependency Synchronization feature. But sometimes, users can have a custom jar which they are experimenting on, or which is simply not available in any remote repositories. In such cases, users can still place these unmanaged `.jar` files in the `userlib` to build their Mendix projects. 

Reviewer 3: Would `Managed Dependencies feature` be better instead of `Dependency Synchronization feature`?

Reviewer: Changed.

## Migrating from unmanaged to managed dependencies

When you have created a module that contains `.jar` files in the userlib folder we advise you to port this to managed dependencies if the `.jar` is available on a Maven repository. Add the specified dependency to your module and simply remove the old `.jar` file from the `userlib` folder to prevent a conflict.

> The platform-supported Marketplace modules created by Mendix have been updated with a custom mechanism to automatically migrate to managed dependencies. Each module with Java dependencies contains a migration file that will clean up specific files from the `userlib` folder and adds them as managed dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Should we omit the details about automatic migration, i.e. the sentence `Each module...`?

Reviewer 2: I'm unsure whether 'platform-supported Marketplace modules' is a known thing outside of Mendix, so should we even have this paragraph?

Reviewer: I think it is best to leave this out, it just makes it more complex and the customer doesn't need to know how it works.

Author: Agreed, we can remove the 2nd paragraph

Reviewer: @lvanengelen 
Hi Leroy.
Platform-supported Marketplace modules are definitely a thing. They are the ones which we document on the docs site and many companies will only use modules which are platform supported so that they can get support from us if they have issues.

So I think the first half of the paragraph is definitely worth including.
